CNV#45704 4.18: Configuring a storage class for custom boot source updates (#88579)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/virt-configuring-default-and-virt-default-storage-class.adoc

// Module included in the following assembly:
//
// * virt/storage/virt-automatic-bootsource-updates.adoc
//

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="virt-configuring-default-and-virt-default-storage-class_{context}"]
= Configuring the default and virt-default storage classes

> A storage class determines how persistent storage is provisioned for workloads. In {VirtProductName}, the virt-default storage class takes precedence over the cluster default storage class and is used specifically for virtualization workloads. Only one storage class should be set as virt-default or cluster default at a time. If multiple storage classes are marked as default, the virt-default storage class overrides the cluster default. To ensure consistent behavior, configure only one storage class as the default for virtualization workloads.

Reviewer: In the admonition below, virt-default takes mark-up, which seems right to me.

[IMPORTANT]
====
Boot sources are created using the default storage class. When the default storage class changes, old boot sources are automatically updated using the new default storage class. If your cluster does not have a default storage class, you must define one.

> If boot source images were stored as VolumeSnapshots and both the cluster default and `virt-default` storage class have been unset, the VolumeSnapshots will be cleaned up and new DataVolumes will be created. However they will not start importing until a default storage class is set.

Reviewer: What is _they_?
```suggestion
If boot source images were stored as `VolumeSnapshots` objects and both the cluster default and the `virt-default` storage class have been unset, the `VolumeSnapshots` objects are cleaned up and new `DataVolumes` objects are created. However, they will not start importing until a default storage class is set.
```
or 
```suggestion
If boot source images were stored as volume snapshots and both the cluster default and `virt-default` storage class have been unset, the volume snapshots are cleaned up and new data volumes are created. However, they will not start importing until a default storage class is set.
```

====

.Procedure

> . Patch the current virt-default or a cluster-default storage class to false:

Reviewer: Previously, [_cluster default_ didn't take a hyphen](https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/pull/88579/files#diff-f9e9945995f11e4d477ac976d85e6140e12c4b81e11e4e3369d778fa9382e06fR10), which seems right to me.

.. Identify all storage classes currently marked as virt-default:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get sc -o json| jq '.items[].metadata|select(.annotations."storageclass.kubevirt.io/is-default-virt-class"=="true")|.name'
----
+
.. For each storage class returned, remove the virt-default annotation by running:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc patch storageclass <storage_class_name> -p '{"metadata": {"annotations": {"storageclass.kubevirt.io/is-default-virt-class": "false"}}}'
----
+
.. Identify all storage classes currently marked as cluster-default:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get sc -o json| jq '.items[].metadata|select(.annotations."storageclass.kubernetes.io/is-default-class"=="true")|.name'
----
+
.. For each storage class returned, remove the cluster-default annotation by running:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc patch storageclass <storage_class_name> -p '{"metadata": {"annotations": {"storageclass.kubernetes.io/is-default-class": "false"}}}'
----

. Set a new default storage class:
.. Assign the virt-default role to a storage class:
+
[source,terminal]
----

> oc patch storageclass <storage_class_name> -p '{"metadata": {"annotations": {"storageclass.kubevirt.io/is-default-virt-class": "true"}}}'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ oc patch storageclass <storage_class_name> -p '{"metadata": {"annotations": {"storageclass.kubevirt.io/is-default-virt-class": "true"}}}'
```

----
+
.. Alternatively, assign the cluster-default role to a storage class
+
[source,terminal]
----

> oc patch storageclass <storage_class_name> -p '{"metadata": {"annotations": {"storageclass.kubernetes.io/is-default-class": "true"}}}'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ oc patch storageclass <storage_class_name> -p '{"metadata": {"annotations": {"storageclass.kubernetes.io/is-default-class": "true"}}}'
```
